Magic system:
    Spells can be created by combining quantities of elements (for the sake of explanation, let's call one unit of one element a 'thaum')
    These thaums add, and are combined in pairs: eg, "fire fire fire air" would create a "fire-air" spell with 3 thaums of fire and 1 of air.
    Thaums should cancel out: eg, "fire water" would create a spell which doesn't do anything, but "fire water water" would create a 1 thaum water spell.
    As they are combined in pairs, we can do things like this: "fire fire air air fire" to create a spell with the effect "2fire-2air fire", some form of fire-air spell which *also* deals fire damage afterwards to the opponent. Or even "fire earth air water", a "fire-earth air-water" spell - lava followed by rain or something?
    Perhaps, the player should not be able to cast more than 3 thaums of the same element without some form of magic circle to stop the power from escaping or something. With more complex magic circles needed for more powerful spells. Though, these circles would only be needed when creating the spell in the first place.
    Spells should be able to be assigned names, so they can be cast quickly (tab completion in battle mode or something?)
    Spells should be able to be applied to objects, with an affect dependant on the object: eg, air applied to a helmet allows you to breathe with no air, or air applied to boots allows you to fly. Or fire applied to a shield makes it fire resistant. Or fire applied to a sword makes it deal fire damage. Or something.
    Spells on objects should only be active when the player has mana. The mana should be drained more slowly than when a player is using a spell of equal power in battle, however, but there *must* be a cost of using magical items.
    Magic objects should be able to absorb some of the power of an attack spell which hits them, and activate for a short period of time. That, or disintegrate, depending on the relative powers of the spells.

Attributes:
    The character should have an "Air Mastery", "Earth Mastery", et al. attributes.
    These attributes affect the power of spells using those elements, and slightly lower mana usage by that element.

Alignment:
    Items should have a normal, cursed, holy, or unholy status. This would affect how they affect enemies. ie: a holy sword would deal more damage to an evil enemy than a good one.
    Cursed items should always cost the player something - mana, health?
    To make an item holy, or to remove unholy, it should be taken to a priest or something.
    To make an item unholy, it should be taken to a dark priest (wow, imaginative name…) or something.
    Cursed arises randomly when an emeny uses an unholy weapon.
    Perhaps the alignment system could be applied to spells, but it's difficult to think of a scenario that could turn "Fireball of Death" into "Holy Fireball of Death" or something…

Items:
    Items should be able to be renamed by the player.
    Shops in game should alter how much they will buy/sell an item for depending on its magical or alignment status.
    This allows cool items like "Sword of Unholy Fire" :p

Magical items:
    Ok, this will be difficult to implement, unlike the battle magic, which is relatively simple (wow, statement of the obvious there).
    We'll need to think of base affects for magic on items. ie: helmets allow you to breathe, see, hear, smell, etc. Earth helmet could be smell, for example. Air helmet could be breathe.
    Main armour items should *always* offer resistance to the elements / pairs you enchant it with. If they are holy, they should also absorb some of the power of such a spell that hits you and, as well as use the power to activate themselves, convert it into health for the player. Unholy items should do the same but for mana (or something). Cursed items should take a health penalty, but only a small fraction of what the damage *would* have been (or cause an effect or something).
    Weapons should *always* offer damage in the elements / pairs you enchant it with. eg: sword enchanted with "fire-air fire" would act like that spell, but the strength would be derived from the power of the enchantment, and the character's attributes.

For the sake of fairness:
    The player should not have the ability to use quintessence. Only bad guys. And make it have some form of magic-cancelling effect. So, eg, a room enchanted with quintessence prevents the use of magic (by player and evil peoples) within it.
    When fighting an enemy with a quintessence item, all magical items are disabled and spells can't be used. Thus, the player can't rely *entirely* on magic.
    If the player kills an enemy and picks up a quintessence item they were carrying, it should disable all magical items he has, prevent the use of spells, and drain mana *and* health (but it would also disable enemies' magic in battle)

Endgame:
    If the player gets to the end with entirely custom weapons/armour, there should be a bonus of some kind.
    I'm thinking ascension. The player goes back to the beginning, loses all their items, but retains their magic and attributes. Also, the enemies double in strength or something.

Dev:
    I'd imagine we'll be coding in Python
    We'll need something like Git to keep track of code changes.

As you can see, I am fairly dissatisfied with the magic systems in most games. Materia in Final Fantasy *sort of* solve the problem (in regards to magic items), but not entirely :p

</rambling>
